Wind and waves are set to be included in calculations of the size of countries' economies for the first time, as part of changes approved at the United Nations.Assets like oilfields were already factored in under the rules - last updated in 2008.This update aims to capture areas that have grown since then, such as the cost of using up natural resources and the value of data.The changes come into force in 2030, and could mean an increase in estimates of the size of the UK economy making promises to spend a fixed share of the economy on defence or aid more expensive.The economic value of wind and waves can be estimated from the price of all the energy that can be generated from the turbines in a country.The update also treats data as an asset in its own right on top of the assets that house it like servers and cables.Governments use a common rule book for measuring the size of their economies and how they grow over time.These changes to the rule book are "tweaks, rather than a rewrite", according to Prof Diane Coyle of the University of Cambridge.Ben Zaranko of the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS) calls it an "accounting" change, rather than a real change. He explains: "We'd be no better off in a material sense, and tax revenues would be no higher."
But it could make economies look bigger, creating a possible future spending headache for the UK government.
For example, Labour has committed to allocating fixed percentages of the size of the economy on defence and aid.
That is a tiny share of the total government budget, but large compared with the cuts to overseas aid (£6bn) that are currently funding extra defence spending or the headroom that the government has left to meet its self-imposed fiscal rules (£10bn).
The government spending watchdog, the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR), will not be including the impact of these new rules on the government finances in their assessment of the government finances this March.
This makes the new rules a possible future headache for the Chancellor rather than an immediate one.
A private spacecraft that landed lopsided on the Moon does not have enough power to complete its mission, says the company Intuitive Machines.Athena touched down on the lunar South Pole shortly after 1730GMT (1230EST) on Thursday, but it later was revealed the craft had landed on its side.It was supposed to spend 10 days searching for water ice, but the position of its solar panels and the cold temperatures of the rocky region mean it cannot recharge.Intuitive Machines partnered with US space agency Nasa to explore whether humans can live on the Moon."With the direction of the sun, the orientation of the solar panels, and extreme cold temperatures in the crater, Intuitive Machines does not expect Athena to recharge," the company said in a statement about the mission called IM-2.Last year Intuitive Machines' first spacecraft also landed on its side, breaking a leg.
It is unlikely that the instruments on board can now be used, including a drill to penetrate the lunar soil, a hopping robot to explore a shadowed crater, and the first lunar antenna."Clearly the mission can only have achieved a fraction of its science goals," says Dr Simeon Barber, lunar scientist at the Open University.
It is considered a difficult and risky area to land in.
The sun is low in the sky and casts shadow that can confuse landers trying to touch down. And the amount of sunlight reaching the craft can limit how much electricity it produces in its solar panels.
Radio communications from Earth are also more difficult.
And Dr Barber says some of the instruments are likely to have been turned on briefly on Thursday, including the drill and a mass spectrometer that could identify chemicals in gases released from the lunar soil.
That is likely to generate some useful scientific information, he says.
The shortcomings of IM-2 are in contrast to the successful landing of a different private craft on Sunday by the company Firefly Aerospace in a different area of the Moon.
Nasa wants to send four astronauts to the Moon in 2027 in its Artemis programme. Its long-term goal is to take humans to Mars, using the Moon as a stepping stone.
